Smoke tests in nodejs (#6499)
microsoft/vscode-python: src/smoke/README.md

> # VS Code Smoke Test

Author: ok

## Usage

```shell
$ # This step `npm run package` is required to ensure the 'ms-python-insiders.vsix' is available locally.

> $ # You could instead just download this and dump into the working directory (much faster).

Author: For testing only

$ # npm run package # see notes above.

$ npm run compile-smoke
$ npm run smokeTest # Use the `-- --tags=@wip` argument to run specific tests.
$ npm run smokeTest -- --help # for more information (see src/smoke/src/cli.ts)
$ npm run smokeTest:report # To generate report (output is './vscode test/reports/report.html')
```

## Overview

* These are a set of UI tests for the Python Extension in VSC.
* The UI is driven using the same infrastructure as used by `VS Code` for their smoke tests.

> * [BDD](https://docs.cucumber.io/bdd/overview/) is used to create the tests, and executed using [cucumberjs](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js).

Author: Please check documentation on BDD for details of benefits.

> ## How does it work?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to run smoke tests?
```

> Here are the steps involved in running the tests:

Reviewer: I see steps for setup.  Where are the steps for actually running the tests?

Author: in CI

> * Setup environment:

Author: Yes this ALL for CI. If you want to run it locally then the documentation is for you.

>     * Pull down `ms-python-extension.vsix` from Azure Pipline.

Author: We're pulling from azure pipelines.

    * Download a completely fresh version of VS Code (`stable/insiders`. Defaults to `stable`).
        (configurable using the `--channel=stable | --channel=insider`)

>     * Create a folder named `.vscode test` where test specific files will be created (reports, logs, VS Code, etc).

Author: Yes, space is deliberate.
Details documented in the readme (should be in root directory)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## How does it work?
```

*   When launching VSC, we will launch it as a completely stand alone version of VSC.
    * I.e. even if it is installed on the current machine, we'll download and launch a new instance.
    * This new instance will not interfere with currently installed version of VSC.
    * All user settings, etc will be in a separate directory (see `user` folder).
    * VSC will not have any extensions. We are in control of what extensions are installed (see `.vscode test/extensions` folder).
*   Automate VSC UI
    * Use the VS Code smoke test API to automate the UI.
    * The [BDD](https://docs.cucumber.io/bdd/overview/) tests are written and executed using [cucumberjs](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js).
*   Workspace folder/files

>     * Each [feature](https://docs.cucumber.io/gherkin/reference/#feature) can have its own set of files in the form of a github repo.

Author: Optional, I started with my own separate repo (should be pulled into this repo).

>     * Just add a tag with the path of the github repo url to the `feature`.

Reviewer: Where?

Author: THis is a BDD tag (you'll first need to read up on `cucumberjs` as that's where the concept of `tags` come in.

    * When starting the tests for a feature, the repo is downloaded into a new random directory `.vscode test/temp/workspace folder xyz`

>     * At the begining of every scenario, we repeate the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * At the begining of every scenario, we repeat the previous step.
```

    * This ensures each scenario starts with a clean workspace folder.
*   Reports

>     * Test results are stored in the `reports` directory

Reviewer: Where is that directory?

    * These `json` (`cucumber format`) report files are converted into HTML using an `npm` script [cucumber-html-reporter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cucumber-html-reporter).
    * For each `scenario` that's executed, we create a corresponding directory in `reports` directory.

>         * This will contain all screenshots realted to that scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * This will contain all screenshots related to that scenario.
```

        * If the scenario fails, all logs, workspace folder are copied into this directory.
        * Thus, when ever a test fails, we have everything related to that test.
        * If the scenario passes, this directory is deleted (we don't need them on CI server).

## Technology

* 100% of the code is written in `nodejs`.
* The tests are written using [cucumberjs](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js).
* VS Code [smoke tests API](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/tree/master/test/smoke) is used to automate VS Code.
* `GitHub` repos are used to provide the files to be used for testing in a workspace folder.

> *  reports (`cucumber format`) are converted into HTML using an `npm` script [cucumber-html-reporter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cucumber-html-reporter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* reports (`cucumber format`) are converted into HTML using an `npm` script [cucumber-html-reporter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cucumber-html-reporter).
```

* Test result reports are generated using `junit` format, for Azure Devops.

> ## Files & Folders

Reviewer: Consider moving this up, above the "How does it work?" section.

Author: Leaving here, better to have a separate section, else `how does it work` gets too large (we don't need to mention each folder individually in that section).

* The folder `.vsccode-test` in the root directory is where VSC is downloaded, workspace files created, etc.
    * `stable` This is VS Code stable is downloaded.
    * `insider` This is VS Code insider is downloaded.
    * `user` Directory VS Code uses to store user information (settings, etc)
    * `extensions` This is where the extensions get installed for the instance of VSC used for testing.

>     * `workspace folder` Folder opened in VS Code for testing

Reviewer: Is the space in the name intentional?

Author: Yes

    * `temp` Temporary directory for testing. (sometimes tests will create folders named `workspace folder xyz` to be used as workspace folders used for testing)
    * `reports` Location where generated reports are stored.
    * `logs` Logs for tests
    * `screenshots` Screen shots captured during tests
* `src/smoke/bootstrap` Contains just the bootstrap extension code.
* `src/smoke/src` Source code for smoke Tests (features, nodejs code, etc).

> * `src/smoke/vscode` Location where all [VS Code smoke tests code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/tree/master/test/smoke) is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `src/smoke/vscode` Our local copy of the (internal) upstream [VS Code smoke tests code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/tree/master/test/smoke).
```

## CI Integration

* For more details please check `build/ci`.
* We generally try to run all tests against all permutations of OS + Python Version + VSC
    * I.e. we run tests across permutations of the follows:
        - OS: Windows, Mac, Linux

>         - Python: 2.7, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7

Reviewer 2: Don't we only test smoke against 2.7 and 3.7

Author: UI Tests run against more versions.
